>> Kyle Simpson: Speaking of inheritance,
if we wanted to do a true sort of
child class in the prototypal style,
we'd define line eight and
another workshop contructor.
And the way we make
another workshop extend or
inherit from the workshop is this
line right here, oops, sorry.
This line right here,
line 11, object dot create.
On line 11, object dot create,
we are saying take the prototype that I
initially got, which is not what I want,
and change where it is linked to make sure
that it links the workshop dot prototype.
Object dot create does two things.
It's a utility built in the es5 and
it does two things.
See if this sounds familiar.
The first thing that object dot create
does is create a brand new empty
object dot of thin air.
And then, the second thing it does is
it links that object to another object.
It's the first two steps
of the new algorithm
as a specific API method
called object dot create.
So here, we're saying I want my
another workshop prototype to
be prototype linked to
the workshop do prototype.
Alternatively, again,
it's a bit of an anti pattern, but
alternatively, you could have said
another workshop dot prototype
dot dunderproto equals
workshop dot prototype.
You could have rewired it that way.
But we're creating a new
object to get a new linkage.
And that is the effect, then,
that the js recent parts object that I've
created on line 16, that object is
linked to the prototype object,
which is linked to the workshop
dot prototype object.
They're linked through that
hidden prototype chain.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, the linkage
that exists between these objects,
that's not a bad thing at all.
That's actually a magical awesome thing.
But we have a whole bunch of
complexity layered on top.
We've got all these things that
look like constructor functions.
We've got all this verbose
dot prototype stuff.
We've got confusing new keyword instances.
And all of this artifice is on top of
these three objects linked together.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it's the objects
being linked together that actually
creates all of the power here.
It creates the ability for me to say
line 18 js recent parts dot speak up.
Does that object have
a speak up method on it?
The line here, line 18, is there
a speak up method on JSRecentParts?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: So where does it go next?
>> Speaker 2: Another workshop?
>> Kyle Simpson: It goes to
another workshop prototype
which does have a speak up.
So when that function is invoked,
what is the thisKeyword gonna point at?
>> Speaker 3: JSRecentParts.
>> Kyle Simpson: Still gonna
point to JSRecentParts.
And it says this dot ask.
So does JSRecentParts have an ask method?
So where's it gonna go?
Backup to another workshop prototype.
Does that one have an ask method on it?
So where's it gonna go?
Does this one have an ask method on it?
Yes, when it invokes,
what's the this keyword gonna point at?
Still gonna point at JSRecentParts.
No matter how many times up the prototype
chain you have to resolve to find your
methods, and no matter how far up they go,
the this binding is still controlled
at the root by the call site.
And I have a fancy academic term for
that, I call that super unicorn magic.
That's amazing and awesome that it
can find these functions in all these
different places in the prototype chain,
and still make sure their this context
is exactly what we would expect,
which is rooted at the call stack.
You had a question?
>> Speaker 4: Just to absolutely confirm.
Were line 11 not to exist, this would
break because another workshop dot
prototype would just point
to object dot prototype.
>> Kyle Simpson: That is correct, yes.
Line 11 is the extends clause,
if you will.
That's how we make another
workshop link to workshop.